Step 1: Cream the butter and sugar
Start by beating the butter and 1 cup of the sugar in a large bowl until the mixture is thick and pale colored, about 5 minutes. This step not only mixes the two ingredients together, but it also creates air in the dough, resulting in a lighter, fluffier texture later on in the process.

Once the butter and sugar are well combined, add the eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition.

Step 2: Bring the dough together and let it rest
Meanwhile, in a large bowl, combine the flour, baking powder, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, salt and nutmeg. Alternatively add the dry ingredients with the milk to the butter mixture, beating well with each addition. Continue until all the ingredients are well mixed. Cover and refrigerate the dough for 2 hours.

Step 3: Cut the doughnuts
Turn the dough onto a heavily floured surface and shape it into a large, 1/4-inch thick rectangle. Cut out your doughnut shapes with a floured 2-1/2-inch doughnut cutter. If you don’t have a cutter, you can use a 1-cup measure to make the outer cut and a piping tip to remove the center hole.

Pro Tip: Don’t throw away the middles! Fry them up separately to create bite-sized doughnut holes.

Step 4: Fry ’em up
In an electric deep fryer or Dutch oven, heat about a quart of neutral oil (like canola or peanut) to 375° F. Add the doughnuts three or four at a time, taking care not to add so many that the oil will drop more than 10° F. Fry the doughnuts for 3 to 5 minutes, flipping once, until they’re golden brown on both sides. Drain the doughnuts on a baking sheet lined with a cooling rack and continue frying until all the doughnuts are cooked.

Pro Tip: Doughnuts taste great at room temperature, but they’re particularly fantastic when they’re piping hot. Hold the doughnuts warm in a 250° F oven while you continue cooking the remaining dough.

Step 5: Roll the doughnuts in cinnamon and sugar
Combine the remaining sugar and cinnamon to use as a sugary topping. Roll the warm doughnuts in the mixture and serve hot or at room temperature.

Pro Tip: Before you dust them in the cinnamon sugar, you can freeze doughnuts for up to three months. Wrap each doughnut individually in foil and place them in an airtight freezer bag. When you’re ready to use them, remove the foil and thaw the doughnuts at room temperature. Then, roll them in the sugar mixture before serving.
